# Conditionals

In the previous section, we gave an example of a simple list macro. However, that would only work for three child elements. In this section, we'll introduce the `:consume` and `:consume-all` macros that make macros much more powerful.

The `:consume` macro checks how many child elements are required for the section under it, and will only return that if there are the right number of children left.

For example, using our list example again, we might want to make sure that for each `:child`, there actually is one. So we could have

```hbml
--list > ul {
    :consume > li > :child
    :consume > li > :child
    :consume > li > :child
}
```

This will mean that if we only gave two elements, the list would only have two elements in it now because the last `:consume` would see that it required one child, and that none were left, so it wouldn't expand into anything.

But, we can do better. What if we gave four elements. The list would still only have three elements, and we'd have one element left un-used. This is where `:consume-all` comes in. `:consume-all` acts just like `:consume` but will repeat until there aren't enough child elements left.

This means we can make our list macro much better

```hbml
--better-list > ul > :consume-all > li > :child
```

## The `:unwrap` macro

The last macro is the `:unwrap` macro. This macro takes some elements, and "unwraps" them. Comments and strings are left alone, but elements have their children returned.

```hbml
:unwrap {
    { "Text" }
    "More text"
    .class { p > "A paragraph" }
}
// Equivalent
"Text"
"More text"
p > "A paragraph"
```

## Examples

### A two columned table

When writing documentation, you may find yourself making a lot of tables with two columns in them. So, you might define a macro similar to this one

```hbml
--2table > table {
    thead { tr { td > :child td > :child } }
    tbody > :consume-all {
        tr { td > :child td > :child }
    }
}
```

If we then consider equivalents, we see what happens if `:consume-all` doesn't use every element

```hbml
// macro
:2table { "Heading 1" "Heading 2" "Row 1" "Value 1" }
// equivalent
table {
    thead { tr { td > "Heading 1" td > "Heading 2" } }
    tbody > tr { td > "Row 1" td > "Value 1" }
}
```

When we put the right number of elements under the macro call, it works as expected. But, if we add one more element under our macro

```hbml
// macro
:2table { "Heading 1" "Heading 2" "Row 1" "Value 1", "Row 2" }
// equivalent
table {
    thead { tr { td > "Heading 1" td > "Heading 2" } }
    tbody > tr { td > "Row 1" td > "Value 1" }
}
```

We see that the new value is ignored because the `:consume-all` section in the macro required two elements but only got 1. If we added an extra value, the macro would add in a new row to the table


### An interesting table macro

If we wanted to make our table macro nice and generic, we might make something like this

```hbml
--table-row > tr > :consume-all > td > :child
--table > table > :consume-all > :table-row > :unwrap > :child
```

This might look a little daunting, but we can work through it; especially if we specify what kind of inputs the macro expects.

Let's start with `:table-row`. This macro expects to be given a load of elements, each of which will be put into a `td` rag and all of them under a `tr` tag.

Now, `:table`. This expects to be given several elements each of which with child elements (see the example usage below). For each given element, it'll expand them (returning the elements children), and pass that to `:table-row` to generate a table row. This is then repeated for each given element, and then all of it gets wrapped up in a `table`.

```hbml
:table {
    { "Heading 1" "Heading 2" }
    { "Row 1" "Value 1" }
    { "Row 2" "Value 2" }
}
// Equivalent
table {
    tr { td > "Heading 1" td > "Heading 2" }
    tr { td > "Row 1" td > "Value 1" }
    tr { td > "Row 2" td > "Value 2" }
}
```
